do you envisioned on your children's
book getting published after you get
back to Kendra I want to do that ASAP
you know i mean the children's book
thing I mean I guess the shortcut is if
I just you know if I just pay money out
of pocket for an artist I was trying to
talk in a more organic way you know to
two artists who are vegan like artists
who would care about the project you
know on the one I could just save up
money and pay for it myself or I could
try to do a fundraiser or ask you know
as people that contribute on Kickstarter
or something but it would not be a lot
of money you know if it's a couple
hundred pages so a couple hundred
dollars per page it's not a very long
book but you know if you just want to
directly hire a professional to
illustrate it but no I'd love to move
ahead with that absolutely ASAP the
audience for it in Chinese is much
larger than the audience for it in
English both because more people speak
Chinese but also because more parents
want to raise their kids vegan or just
with us sit with a sympathetic Henderson
animals and what's what's really big in
China is not veganism it's meat avoiding
behavior what's really big here is not
veganism but Val arising avoiding meet
regarding people who refuse to eat meat
as virtuous culturally there's a big big
market for the message that's in that
book and as mentioned I've seen Chinese
people react to that story because I
wrote it in Chinese and presented it to
two different Chinese teachers and some
other context and a lot of Chinese
people find the Chinese version of the
story very emotionally moving like it
has a big impact on them and most i just
mentioned this is interesting to me most
the chinese people they get about
halfway through the story before really
realizing what it's going to do to them
and then it has this kind of sinks in
you know they mean they don't they don't
see it coming maybe it's more
predictable in english but obviously for
me it's very gratifying to see that
these are chinese adults responding to
it that way so you know there's this a
little bit of poetry and the way the
chinese is written and sure it'd be
great to see that reaching an audience
of Chinese kids to do you think that
earthworms ever want to see the sky
sometimes sometimes they do sometimes
they climb up on the grass sometimes
they wiggle up to the top of a mud
puddle do you think they want to see the
Sun the moon and the clouds as we do I
don't know do you think the birds
looking down ever want to see the world
underground as earthworms do they see
the same sky every day perhaps sometimes
they imagine there is another world
below where the earthworm's fly to
sitting on the street lights looking
down they imagine the earthworm sitting
on their own little lamb pool looking up
from a world turned upside down when
birds fly over the lake do you think
they want to see the world below the
water as fishes do do they imagine
there's another son and another moon
down there under the water for all the
fishes to see in the sky they see the
Sun the moon and the clouds so they
imagine the fish of their own world with
their own son at the bottom of the lake
I suppose when the fish come up to the
surface what would they expect to see
some seaweed or octopus floating by
another ocean upside down above them in
the sky yes I suppose so earthworms want
to see the sky the birds want to see
underground and the fish want to see
another ocean in the clouds what about
the pigs and the cows what do you mean I
think cows want to see the sky but they
live their whole lives inside millions
of cows live in factories and never see
the sky I think pigs want to see the sky
but millions of them in the factories
live their whole lives inside waiting to
die when they look up they see only a
metal roof and when they look down they
see only a concrete floor perhaps they
imagine that the world outside has only
a middle sky and the forests and fields
are made of cement and steel
even earthworms want to see the sky and
that is the title of the book even are
thorns want to see the sky aah buh new
CN do you think in some ways learning is
a little bit of a lost art especially in
the newer generations has it has it
really gotten worse though it's so easy
to slip into that mentality that things
were better in the past what did you
have in mind though I mean did you have
something specific in mind in terms of
declining levels of that was those my
way of kind of asking you about remember
you talked about how in the video that
you had seen I think was a news reporter
but now that somebody come to the
usually something had happened on the
University campus some kind of violence
or something like that and you would
have thought about that about um because
people go to university right now
whether or not but they're not they're
interested in learning like how at some
other time this individual not be right
at a university yes not really
interested on some level yeah I don't
know if you remember that comment
actively but that's literally what I was
thinking yeah no I mean I remember that
column over really well and I mean you
know I've seen all those extremes in
both Canada and China in China the vast
majority of people do not get to choose
their major university so I mean you see
all these examples even in China of
people who don't want to learn who
aren't motivated who didn't choose their
major who resent it who are a qualified
nurse would have no intention of working
as a nurse another young woman and she
she was forced to major in Vietnamese as
a language she spoke English really well
she wanted to learn English but the
government has signed her to study
Vietnamese for someone else would be a
wonderful opportunity for her she just
sleepwalked through it she
didn't want so I mean you see all these
bizarre I earnings but on the other hand
in China I mean the Chinese are famous
for this culturally you meet people who
want education so badly to have so much
positive motivation who really want to
learn who really want to improve
themselves like you see a member of this
is memorable this is from Taiwan a
security guard who was standing there
all
loan you had the most boring job in the
world standing in front of you know an
elevator door in a an apartment building
as a security guard and he was
practicing very assiduously practicing
Chinese calligraphy you know alone and
nobody's watching while he was working a
security guard you know you meet people
who wrote I their care about history or
you know literature what have you so you
see all those extremes here but you know
to give a really brief answer I mean you
know in Canada because you've probably
heard this from you in other videos my
experience the university is completely
uniformly negative completely negative I
have nothing positive to say about any
university was at in Canada and it
really is the tragedy of my adult life
that I've been unable to get an
education and able to get ahead because
the university is so bad in Canada and
you know the department I was just in
the Asian Studies department I
completely assumed okay so i'm
interested in asian politics i'm in a
department that's full of people who
study eight politics in the area it must
be easy for me to meet people i thought
that come on my youtube channel I
thought I'd meet other people interested
in politics of Asia and we you know do a
podcast or do a conversation on camera
or something I didn't meet a single
person interested in politics of Asia
out of hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of students there and I started
to figure out why the reality of ninety
nine percent of the students around me
was that they came to Canada and they
wanted to major in chemistry or medicine
biomedical sciences or something that
would earn a lot of money like economics
some of them want to major in business
and then they weren't smart enough they
weren't hard-working enough or their
English wasn't good enough so they had
to drop out of that major and somebody
said to them look kid you don't speak
English well enough to get ahead in
chemistry but Chinese is your first
language so why don't you just measure
in Asian Studies that'll be easy for you
because you're already fluent in Chinese
or Japanese is your first language etc
etc so I was surrounded by people who
did not want to learn now there are a
million other problems with that program
it's terrible that university is
a disgrace beautiful campus beautiful
library you know the actual buildings
are beautiful the climate is beautiful
garden is beautiful but as a university
it's garbage but then within that in
some ways I was in the absolute most
depressing place to be because I'd be in
a classroom were not even one other
student was actually interested in what
the professor was talking about so I in
this to its depressing himself with the
professor's to so like I'd have a class
on the history of communism in China
like horrid political history in China
this is history with a body count weird
i am a millions of people being killed
we're talking about like some of the
details i remember the the professor
broke almost broke down crying he had
tears in his eyes giving this lecture
where he was talking about cannibalism
people murdering each other and eating
each other in the recent history of
china last couple decades non ancient
history 20th century in china talking
about revenge killings and you know uh
cannibalism and he was getting a bit
emotionally broken down and i remember i
SAT there and I just turned around for a
minute to look at the other students in
the class and the other students have
their laptops open and are like
you know doing surfing facebook not even
one other student in the class gave a
on any level it was just absolutely
zero interest in this you know basically
fascinating lecture from somebody who's
a world expert in this topic and at that
moment he was speaking with great
passion and emotion like I think anyway
I think you would find it interesting if
you would never knew nothing about China
if you happen to be sitting there any
basically intelligent person would have
found this particular lecture at least
shocking at least interesting you know
what I mean but you I had to realize
these students do not want to be here
the reason why they're not going to
learn is that they don't want to learn
so yeah that is on a huge scale a crisis
of our modern education system and part
of the tragedy of it is of course that
these are also people who are spending
thousands of dollars if not tens of
thousands of dollars getting an
education that is hollow and that they
can't use and they they won't use